The Product or Service Complaint Processing is a customer service support process that involves the following actors: Complaints Attendant (CA), Product Analyst (PA), Service Analyst (SA), Quality Manager (QM), and Customer Relationship Manager (CRM).
The process starts with the customer reaching out to the attendant through a voice call, WhatsApp, or personalized email. If the contact is made through a voice call or WhatsApp, the attendant must first register the complaint in the customer service database, and the customer must provide their personal information (name, CPF, email). If the contact is made through a personalized email, the procedure is automated, and the customer can only send an email if they are registered.
If the customer cannot be located, they must be informed, and the code of the product or service must be provided for a new location attempt. If the code is also not located, the CRM is informed, and the customer's data and complaint description are registered. The customer is informed that the case will be analyzed and that they will be contacted by email by the CRM. Later, the process is closed.
If the customer is located, if necessary, their data is updated, and they are informed that all further notifications will be made by the provided email. The complaint is registered, and the attendant tries to solve the problem. When the problem is solved, the customer is invited to evaluate the service, and the process is ended.
When a problem is not solved by the attendant, a notification is sent to the QM, containing information about the problem. The QM identifies the product or service and checks if there was any production anomaly on the date it was produced. When the Attendant cannot solve the problem, if the problem is related to a product, it is referred to the Product Analyst. If the problem is related to a service, the attendant refers it to the Service Analyst.
Upon receiving the problem referral, the Service Analyst performs the Problem Analysis process. After analyzing the problem, a diagnosis is generated, and a problem-solving procedure is also created. Both are sent to the customer, and the process ends. When the process is referred to the Product Analyst, they check if the product is under warranty. After that, the analyst performs the problem analysis and sends an email to the customer with information on how to send the product to the company for repair and the cost of the repair. The process ends.
