The Order Registration Process is a collaboration between the Customer and ACME with the aim of creating a new purchase order for a service or product. In ACME's Sales Department, the process involves the following roles: Sales Attendant (SA), Sales Manager (SM), and Inventory Manager (IM).

The process starts with the need for the Customer to acquire a product or service. The Customer prepares their order and sends it to ACME through a Message. Subsequently, the Customer waits for ACME's response, which can be: a quotation message or a message stating that the product/service is unavailable. If the customer does not receive any message by the end of the 5-day period, they give up waiting, and the process is terminated. If the customer receives a quotation message, they evaluate it, either approving or rejecting it. If the quotation is approved, the customer sends a confirmation message to ACME, and the process ends. If the customer receives a message stating that the product is unavailable, they evaluate the situation and decide whether to resubmit the order (going back to the preparation task) or end the process.

When the order reaches ACME, it is received by the Sales Attendant (SA). The SA registers the order and proceeds to analyze it. If the order is for a product, the availability in the inventory is checked by the SA. If the product is available, a quotation is created. The quotation is sent to the Sales Manager (SM) for approval. The SM analyzes the quotation, and if approved, sends an approval message to the SA. Otherwise, they update the quotation and send a message with the new quotation back to the SA. Upon receiving the quotation from the SM, the SA forwards it to the Customer and awaits their approval. If the customer does not confirm within 10 days, the quotation is archived, and the process ends. Otherwise, the SA forwards the approved quotation to the Inventory Manager and ends the process. If the product is unavailable, the SA forwards the order to the Inventory Manager (IM). The IM checks if the product can be acquired. In this case, the IM revises the quotation and sends it to the SA, who in turn forwards it to the customer and waits for confirmation. If acquiring the product is not possible, the IM sends a message stating that the Product/Service is unavailable to the customer, and the process ends.

If the order is for a service, the Sales Attendant (SA) forwards it to the Sales Manager (SM). The SM analyzes the order and, if it can be fulfilled, provides a quotation and sends it to the SA, who in turn forwards it to the customer, following the same procedure as with a product. If the order cannot be fulfilled, the SM sends a message stating that the Product/Service is unavailable to the customer, and the process ends.
