The Collaborative Order Fulfillment and Dispatch process aims to deliver the product/service to the Customer. This process also involves billing and collecting payment for the order. In ACME, the process involves the following roles: Order Provider (OP), Inventory Manager (IM), and Production Manager (PM).

The process initiates whenever there are orders for fulfillment. An event indicating this condition occurs (process start event), and the order provider starts the work by checking if it is an order for a service or a product. If the order is for a product, the availability in the inventory is checked by the OP. If the product is not available in the inventory, the OP sends a request to the Inventory Manager (IM) to procure the product and waits for fulfillment. The IM then forwards a production request to the Production Manager (PM) and notifies the OP that the product has been requested for production. Subsequently, the Production Manager waits for the production process to be completed. After the product is manufactured, the PM sends the products to the Inventory Manager. Once the product is available in the inventory, the IM forwards it to the Order Provider (OP), who proceeds with the billing process for the product and awaits payment. As soon as the Customer sends the payment, the product is dispatched, and the process ends.

If the order is for a service, the Order Provider (OP) sends an agenda for scheduling the service to the Customer, asking them to choose a date for the service execution. The Customer reviews the received agenda and responds with the scheduled date for the service. The order provider forwards the scheduling to the Production Manager and awaits the execution of the service. The Production Manager waits until the scheduled date and then executes the service. After the service is completed, the Production Manager notifies the Order Provider that the service has been executed. Upon receiving the notification of service completion, the OP proceeds with the billing process for the service and awaits payment. As soon as the Customer sends the payment, the service is executed, and the process ends.
