A consultancy firm provides consultancy, outsourcing, and interim management services. The firm considers acquisition of projects as part of those services. Acquisition can both be done for existing clients and for new clients, because it concerns acquisition of projects rather than clients. Acquisition is typically started at ‘networking events’ by partners of the consultancy firm. It is handled according to a fixed procedure, but no standard document is used. When a client shows interest in a consultancy service, an intake is done with the client. To maintain a long-term relationship with clients as much as possible, the firm will always try to establish a framework contract with new clients during the intake. For existing clients a framework contract does not have to be established. As another form of relationship management, regular meetings are held with existing clients. During these meetings the client’s organization is discussed with the client. This enables the client to decide whether additional work should be done to further improve the organization. At the same time this enables the firm to bring in additional assignments. The intake and the regular meetings happen according to the same form, on which an inventory of the client’s wishes can be made.
For consultancy and outsourcing services, a project team must be created directly after a project assignment was given to the consultancy firm. After a project team is created, there is a kick-off meeting with the client and after the kick-off meeting, the project is executed. The kick-off meeting is the same for each type of project, but the way in which the project is executed differs largely per type of service. At the end of the project there always is an evaluation meeting with the client as a means of quality control. The creation of the project team, the kick-off meeting, the execution of the project and the evaluation of the project happen according to a project plan.
The consultancy company has a services department, which takes care of market research for the consultants, manages the leasing of cars and provides secretary services.
